
## Server-Side Rendering

Traditionally servers generated the content that was viewed in a browser. Another words all the HTML/CSS and JS that were to rendered and executed in the browser was sent to the browser when the page was initially loaded.

For the user to get new content they would make an HTTP Request to the server and the server would generate the content for the complete page.

There are some good reasons to generate content on the server. Some of these are:


* Load time.
	Many apps load tons of JS when they are first loaded in the browser. It can take awhile for this javascript to load and execute.

	Often, the server will generate initial content a user views when they go to a site. Then, after this initial load Ajax will be used to update the site with new and updated content.

* Predictable performance.
	Some browers are hopelessly slow and buggy. Older browser are still used in many places all over the world. I'm talking crazy old, Netscape Navigator, IE4 old.
	Not everyone has modern browsers or devices that run JS efficiently.


* Caching
	We can cache content generated with from the server. And caches can be smoking fast.
	* Delivering content to the user right from the user's machine, the Browser cache.

	* Delivering content from a machine geographically close to the user. From a machine in the next town over! This is why we use *Content Delivery Networks (CDN).*

	* Delivering content without executing code in the web application. Save the generated HTML in a file on the server and give it to the browser as needed.

* RESTful
	The web is a highly scalable distributed system. Part of it's RESTful architectural style is that it acts like a big state machine. Where users navigate to each page/node by following links/edges.

	This is easier to implement when server are generating content.

* SEO (Search Engine Optimization)
  Google and other denizens of the net crawl sites and allow user to find your site based on your site's content.

  This has tradionally been done by sending HTTP Requests to the server and having the content generated by the server processed by such crawlers.

  There are ways to do SEO for sites that don't generate server side content, but it's somewhat more complex.

### The Modules

In this excercise, we will be using three modules: [Jade](http://jade-lang.com/), [Stylus](https://learnboost.github.io/stylus/) and [Nib](http://nibstyl.us/)

[Jade](http://jade-lang.com/) is a server-side view engine. Much like we used handlebars on our front end to bind data to a template. We will be creating templates as `.jade` files, and passing them data in our express routes.

[Stylus](https://learnboost.github.io/stylus/) is a CSS pre-processor. It allows us to do some nify things with our stylesheets like create mixins and variables. It also frees us from having to use semi-colons and colons. Pretty nifty, right? Anyone who has ever used SASS or LESS will find this sort of deal familiar. We won't dive too far into Stylus, but it's nice to know about.

[Nib](http://nibstyl.us/)
 is a library built specifically for Stylus. It provides many pre-built mixins that will make your life easier, but most importantly, it frees you from having to include vendor prefixes in your CSS. ~Amazing~

Let's go ahead and install these:

```
npm install jade --save-dev
npm install stylus --save-dev
npm install nib --save-dev
```

Now, we need to import these modules into our `app.js`. Near the top of our page, let's add:

```javascript
var jade = require('jade');
var stylus = require('stylus');
var nib = require('nib');
```

As we know by now, it's not enough to just import these middlewear modules. We need to explicitly tell our Express app to include them.

EXCERCISE #1:

```javascript
app.get('/', function(req, res) {
  res.render( 'index', {name: "Max", message: 'Welcome to our contacts page! I hope you have a good stay.'});
});
```

```jade
html
  head
    title #{name}'s Contact Warehouse
  body
    h1 #{name}'s Contact Warehouse
    h4 #{message}
```

EXCERCISE #2

Add a layout page and extend it to our hello world route:

Our Layout:

```jade
html
  head
    title Contact Warehouse
    link(rel='stylesheet', href='/stylesheets/style.css')
  body
    header
      h1 Contact Warehouse
      block main
```
Our new index.jade:
```jade
extend layout
block main
    h1 #{name}'s Contact Warehouse
    h4 #{message}
```

EXCERCISE #3

Now we will have fun with iteration to render all of our contacts.

This section covers: iteration, embedding javascript into our templates, more advanced syntax

```jade
extend layout
block main
  h1 Contacts
    //- iterating through all of the contacts here
    for contact in contacts
      h3 Name: #{contact.firstName} #{contact.lastName}
      h4 Title: #{contact.title}
      //- // checking to see if we have email addresses
      if (contact.emailAddresses.length > 0)
        h4 Email Addresses:
        //- // iterating through email addresses
        for email in contact.emailAddresses
          p #{email.emailAddressType}: #{email.emailAddress}
      if (contact.phoneNumbers.length > 0)
        h4 Phone Numbers:
        //- // iterating through phone numbers
        for phone in contact.phoneNumbers
          p #{phone.phoneNumberType}: #{phone.phoneNumber}
      if (contact.addresses.length > 0)
        h4 Addresses:
        //- // iterating through addresses
        for address in contact.addresses
          p #{address.street},
          p #{address.city}, #{address.state} #{address.zipCode}
          p #{address.country}
```


- have an index page layout with some javascript that allows users to send post requests to create new contacts
- remember to have them install a jade sublime highlighter


## References

* [Jade Tutorial, kinda long](http://webapplog.com/jade/)
* [Jade Tutorial, Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xyas_g0wJIE)
* [Template Engine Chooser](http://garann.github.io/template-chooser/)
* [Template Engine Comparison](https://strongloop.com/strongblog/compare-javascript-templates-jade-mustache-dust/)
* [Using Template Engines with Node](http://expressjs.com/guide/using-template-engines.html)
